[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So, I've been
thinking a lot about the next language.
What's the language that
replaces JavaScript and
I really hope there is a next language.
Because if JavaScript is
the last programming language,
that would be really sad.
Wouldn't it?
I mean, for our kids, right,we need
to leave them a better language.
We can't allow JavaScript
to be the last language.
So something is going to have
to have to succeed it and
I've been searching for the next language,
and what are the signs?
How will we know when it's here?
And it's sort of like waiting the Messiah,
how do you know?
And I don't know, but I'm looking for and
then I'm starting to try to
understand what it's going to be.
I'm confident, it's not here yet.
Actually, I don't know that.
It might be it's here, but
I just haven't recognized it yet, but
there are people who tell me, it C#.
No, no, no.
Or it's Java,
it's been here the whole time, no, no.
The next language is another language and
it's the thing,
which is the right thing to replace
JavaScript and we haven't seen it yet.
But I think a lot about what it's
going to be and what it's going to do.
I am confident that when it arrives, we
will reject it out of hand, as we always
do, because programmers are as emotional
and irrational as normal people.
We think that we're not and maybe our
spouses tell us we're not, but it's true.
We are and most of what we think about
what we do is based on emotion, and
not on reason, even though we
imagine it's the other way around.
So this sounds like a wild charge to make
of my own profession, but I have some
good reasons for saying this and I think
the historical record backs me up on this.
For example,
it took a generation to agree that
high-level languages were a good idea.
Back in the early days when everything
was in assembly language and
the first high-level languages were being
developed, Fortran, COBOL and so on.
Who would have most benefited
from use of those languages?
The programmers.
Who was it who was opposed
to those languages?
It was the programmers.
They were complaining that the languages
were taking control away from them.
That they didn't give them
the performance that they needed.
They had all these reasons for why they
wanted to stay down in the muck, that they
didn't want to be elevated in these
more expressive, productive languages.
It took a generation to agree
that goto was a bad idea.
Publishes his letter in 67 and
that starts an argument,
that literally goes on for 20 years and
the arguments were all silly arguments.
Now, we need the performance of the goto.
It's how I express myself.
I can't be me, if I can't use goto.
We have a goto tradition,
my grandfather used goto.
You can't take my cold dead hand, all of
those arguments were all made about goto.
It took a generation to agree
that objects were a good idea.
So objects are first discovered
in Simula in Norway in 1967-
>> Speaker 2: Under the ice.
>> Douglas Crockford: I'm sorry.
You said, they were discovered.
>> Douglas Crockford: Well, in Norway.
>> Speaker 2: Under the ice.
>> Douglas Crockford: No, in Oslo.
And as always happens with
the really important innovations,
the world took no notice at all,
except for one guy,
a graduate student at
the University of Utah, Alan Kay.
Who then takes this idea to
Xerox PARC in California,
thinking that this idea of objects is so
incredibly powerful that he can use it
as a programming language for children.
That children can use to program
their personal portable devices.
There was a lot of his vision,
which was right.
A lot of his vision we
haven't caught up to yet,
we still don't have the language for
children.
I don't think we have a language for
adults yet, but we're still working on it,
but they then spent a decade
developing that language and
did a brilliant, brilliant job on it.
And so in the late 80s,
the industry had a choice.
We're gonna go into object
oriented programming.
It took a long time to get there,
but we're gonna do it.
Are we gonna go with Smalltalk-80,
one of the best designed
programming languages in history,
or are we gonna go with C++?
And the decision was made by people
who fundamentally did not understand
object-oriented programming and
they chose C++.
Because in order to use that language,
you did not need to understand anything
about object oriented programming.
That language got some things
fundamentally wrong about object systems.
Unfortunately, the language has
been extremely influential and
has set the mold for virtually
everything that's happened ever since.
I don't know if are ever going
to catch up to Smalltalk,
then it took two generations to
agree that lambdas were a good idea.
So, Alan Kay who is a Smalltalk guy,
he started by writing
a little program in NOVA basic on
a Data General Mini Computer, which
demonstrated his weird little language,
and he started touring with this idea.
Taking it to labs and
universities, and he visited MIT.
Very smart guys at MIT and he's telling
them about his new language, but
it's still early in object
going to programming and
he doesn't have the vocabulary that we
have now to describe what's going on.
So he couldn't say you invoke
a method on an object,
cuz nobody knew to say that yet.
So he described it,
as you send a message to an object.
Well, the guys at MIT listening to him
say, well, you're not actually sending
a message, you're making a sub
routine indication within direction.
But what if you did send a message?
And that started research in
the actor model and the actor model,
you actually have these entities
that are running in separate systems
that can send messages to each other.
That's basically what actors are and
the guy who came up with this,
Carl Hewitt, is one of these guys who's so
amazingly smart.
It's like he was born on the other
side of the paradigm shift.
When he talks about stuff,
people cannot understand what he's saying.
He's very clear, he's very eloquent,
he speaks really well, but
he's talking from a frame of reference,
which is so
foreign to the rest of humanity
that nobody understands him.
Including the other people at MIT,
they were all very smart and
they all had a lot of respect for
Carl, but
they couldn't figure out what he was
raving about with all these actors.
So a couple of them, Sussman and Steele,
decide we need to build something in order
to understand what it is
that Carl's talking about.
So they start by taking LISP and
rewriting it into a language which
models the actor model, and they didn't
fully implement the actor model.
So they never did figure it out,
but the language that they created
was called Scheme and
they had accidentally discovered
functions with lexical closure and all the
stuff that we've been working on today.
So, the fact that you could
have higher order functions,
functions that return functions and all
that stuff happened happened by accident,
trying to figure out what
Carl Hewitt was talking about.
And that is maybe the most important
discovery in the history of programming.
And as always happens,
the world took no notice of it at all and
it just sat around at MIT for years and
years going nowhere and is only now,
finally after 40 years,
finally coming to the mainstream.
And it's coming to the mainstream, because
it was actually a really good idea and
its time has come.
We really need it now.
So the reason these things take so long,
everything takes at least a generation,
is because we don't change minds.
We have to wait for
a generation to retire or die before
we can get critical mass on the next new
idea and that's the way progress goes.
We imagine this is an extremely innovative
industry, and in some ways it is, but
in some ways,
we're just like everybody else.
So, I lived through the goto thing.
I remember when that was happening and
all the arguments, and they were really
emotional angry arguments, and
all the arguments were from emotion.
There was very little
argument from fact and
it just went on, and on, and on,
and on, and then it got quiet.
It was like, are they gone?
Can we get rid of the goto now?
And we did,
we got rid of it and it's gone.
And we're not missing it and
all of the promises
that the world was going to end,
if we took rid of goto or
the lives of programmers
are gonna be made more miserable.
None of that turned out to be true,
we're not missing it.
We're doing great without it.
In fact, some of our languages have maybe
a little bit too much goto left in them,
but we're getting by.
So, it turns out we never needed goto.
Don't need it.
We're doing better without it.
And in fact, what actually happened
was by getting rid of goto,
it made it easier to write
programs of greater complexity.
Because if your only control construct
is goto and conditional goto,
there's a limit to how complex a program
can get before it comes unmanageable.
And by getting rid of goto, we could
do better with larger programs and
we could do better at achieving our
ambitions in terms of writing software.
So, the people who are arguing against
goto were the people who would have
benefited from goto.
They're benefited from getting rid of
goto and it is always like that, and
I expect it will always be like that.
So in looking for the next language,
I'm looking for it to be different in
some important ways and I'm expecting it
to be crucified for those differences.